Now, if this is truly the correct relativistic velocity edition formula, what we should be able to
do is use it to reconcile the dilemma and problem which Terrance and Phillip have illustrated in the
beginning of this course.
So what I'm going to do in this video is I'm going to run through that and show you that if Terrence
CC, then this map dictates that look should also CC.
And that is because it was derived from first principles from the second postulate special relativity,
which states that what is it?
It states that the speed of light is always constant.
It's a constant value of C.
So let's run through that, OK, if it's correct, it should yield that expected value should conform
to the laws of the Universe.
And that will not only increase our confidence in this map, we just arrived, but will give you some
experience in taking this and doing some computations.
Now, as you have noted, or as you can note in the map I have here at the Lawrence Transformation,
I've added the Velocity Edition formulas in both ways, going both ways.
I'm going to utilize this throughout the calculations that we do in this problem.
So what we know is that parents shoot the laser from his spaceship and he identifies that, not surprisingly,
it's traveling at the speed of light.
See if he's going at a speed point nine, five, three times the speed of light.
Our task is to figure out what fuel up it's going to see.
He's trying to preconceived what's going to happen by doing his calculation and using his awesome physics
skills.
OK.
So in order to do this, you know, in the Galilean transformation, we would just add these guys up
together and we got the erroneous result at one.
They obviously can't be true.
Let's see how good this new Relativistic Velocity Edition formula is.
So what we're going to do, and I'm gonna put my notebook down right here, we're going to take this
guy here because we're interested in Philip's interpretation.
We already know a V.X Brian is, and I'm going to write this down.
So we become consistent and you know, it's a record of what we're actually stating.
So we know that Antares is reference for that.
He measured his laser light as see, which is not surprising because again, it's light, and we know
that every relative is nothing more than zero point nine five C. Now we can see the power of this map
of this translation at all.
All you need to do is just throw straight into the map.
It throws out a result, and that allows us to talk about this event in a way that lines up between
these two perspectives.
OK, so what we're going to do is we're shooting in V.X.
Here we take the V.X formula, which is no different than V.X prime, plus the relative.
And we follow that by one plus v relative over C squared times v x prime.
OK.
And all we need to do is we got these guys which were on the right side.
If we fill them in and resolve our problem, that will yield our result that we're looking for.
So let's just do that.
Let's plug in shot b.
V.X, prime is no different.
Then see, we add on VE Relative, which is zero point nine five C.
And we get that result that we see in the galley and transformation, but it's going to be modified
by this term here, which accounts for which is not surprising because, you know, the access decks
over eat that derivative.
This portion on the bottom is for the time we know it dilates.
So that's going to scale this back to try and force the second postulate a special relativity.
Let's see.
So this is just one plus what is b relevant?
All that 0.9 percent.
And then we divide by C squared and multiply by B prime, which is no more than C.
So these guys combined to cancel out the C square on the bottom.
And what we end up with is one point nine five C, divided by one point nine five, just no.
And not surprisingly, this is a good result.
We get the value of C.
OK.
So as you can see, what happens is he fires like he sees the light speed of light.
And Philip calculates that it's also going to go the speed of light.
So, you know, using the Galilean transformation, he was freaking out, but now he's super, frickin
happy.
Put a smile on his face.
Life is good.
So this guy's well for intuition.
This agrees with the second postulate of special relativity and allows us to enforce that principle.
I talked about many video videos ago.
Where do not?
We don't want to dictate how the universe behaves.
Rather, we want to take a step back, observe what happens, namely that the speed of light is constant
and then use that to dictate our predictions, dictate our results and dictate the laws and formulas
that fall out of our observation.
So we're good with this map here.
It's giving us the good result we want.
I'm going to expand upon this example just a little bit to show you how it really exerts the second
positive special relativity, how conforms to reality conforms to what we expect to happen.
So if this relationship is true, then what we're going to find is we should not be able to get V.X
or prime to exceed the speed of light and really just show that this formula capsid.
We're going to do is on the state that on the state the following, what we know is that from the second
populous special relativity, we take this guy here, you know, V.X, prime is less than see.
And the relative has to be less than see, nothing can go faster than the speed of light.
There, what this formula dictates is it's going to say, OK, the X is equal o vice prime plus the
relative over one plus the relative over C squared.
The X, from what we can say is that, well, this has to be less than what it yields for these maximum
values.
Because if this is zero, if the X prime, if you're also four zero zero four zero zero divide by one
plus zero.
That's nothing more than zero.
OK, so if that is the lower cap, the high cap of V.X has to be when these guys are maxed out.
That's how it's going to be.
So what we can say is a V.X.
Well, this is always less than let's put in the maximum value because, you know, V.X, price must
be less than sees that this would be the maximum value there.
The relative has to be less than 30.
So that guy goes up in there and then we divide by one plus c overseas squared times.
See all these guys cancel out.
We get nothing more than to see over two.
And that is see which states that V.X also has to be less fancy.
So.
You're right through this example, we showed one little example in which this is enforced.
But in totality, regardless of what our role philosophy is in our prime.
What these guys are, we're always going to find that the absurd velocity, according to this Formula
E is going to be less than C. No matter what that conforms to the second part of the special relativity.
Not surprising, because that's what's driving the rand's transformation.
That's the base.
That's the foundational support.
Remember, time dilation and length contraction that fell out of the second part of the special relativity?
That's the basis for all this.
That's why I've posted that.
So we ran through this and we see images well, for intuition.
That's good for any kind of physical theory, as I've mentioned before.
But you know what, our favorite scientist parents and fill up, they're not happy either freaking out.
They're like, Oh, I can't trust all this from one experiment, I got to do another one.
So what they do is they take this expensive laser.
They they say, Oh yeah, maybe this result is popping out because we use light.
So it's sort of performing like, let's do another experiment.
So they take this little laser device, they drop it off and let it fly into the sun.
And waste millions of dollars, but they don't care.
And they say, Oh, I'm just going to fire a missile instead as missiles are pretty frickin awesome.
So they shoot a missile off.
You know, this guy comes in and we got this megaton missile as nice frickin fins.
And I say, oh, that's not because the speed of light we're going to say, let's say.
Let's see, Terence observes it, and it goes zero point six.
And the speed of light.
OK, so where do this experiment of this comes out and agrees with our intuition that maybe this theory
is correct, but what they know is that from the Galilean transformation that would have predicted that
V X is equal to v v x prime plus the relative.
And what that says is that V.X, Pride is zero point six C, plus the relative, which is zero point
nine five C, and that would give us the result of 1.5 five C, which is wrong.
So if we take this formula and throw all this information in, it should give us the correct result.
I did just prove that we left the speed of light, which, you know, I tend to fall for a little slow
there, playing around too much.
So they want to be more confident in what they're doing.
And this gives you another opportunity to employ the formula, right used to doing these calculations.
So what we need to do a similar fashion.
We know that v prime v x prime is this guy, and I'll just write it down.
Or, you know, I'll I'll write it down.
V x Prime is equal to zero point six C, as observed by Terrance and V relative.
Again, it's still very close to the speed of light 0.95 C, so we would expect relativistic effects
to come into play where it diverges from the classical result and we need to do is literally plug and
chug baby.
It's that simple.
So we take the map out and this is why it's so powerful.
We take the map, we write down literally the translational formula, which states that v x is equal
to v x prime again, right up here, right from our handy dandy equation sheet on the board plus v relative
divided by one laws.
The relative divided by C squared times, V.X, Prime, and what we plug in should throw these these
numbers in, we got zero point six for V.X prime time C plus B relative again zero point nine five.
We divide by one would be relative 0.9 five C, divided by C squared that's multiplied by V.X.
Prime, we get this guy right here.
We throw that guy in.
We put in a 0.6.
See the CS cancel BAM.
What do we get to do that I need to pick up my notebook.
I don't have a calculator on me.
See what I did previously.
And you end up with is the following.
So this guy is equal to, well, this is just, oh, I can do that addition to my head.
That's one point five five C. Divided by one plus point nine five times six, that ends up being one
point five seven.
And as you should know already, this should not be surprising.
The end result is nothing more than zero point nine eight seven.
Uh, time, see?
Yup.
So Vieques is the following, so we do get some velocity or speed added on from what Terrence observes.
But the mechanism is in place, so it constrains it such that it does not go faster than the speed of
light.
This guy is conforming to reality.
It's conforming to what we would expect to fill up the smiles on the faces.
They're happy.
All is good.
We got this nice translational formula.
So to recap, what have we really done by taking this and combining it with the Lorenz transformation,
we were able to, uh, bridge the gap between an infinite set of perceptions of the universe.
This allows us to get a nice translational tool where we can take anybody's experience the way in which
actions or events transpire in any kind of perspective, any kind of reference frame.
And we can relate them easily and effortlessly, such that we can have an intelligible conversation
about it.
We can have this universal conception of the universe and life is good.
So to this point, we've been talking about kinematic ideas with special relativity.
Now that we have this baseball on a plate, it's nice map.
Uh, nice effects, relativistic effects, time deletion, length, contraction.
Moreover, do you want to take a look at one other idea known as the Doppler effect, how that gets
affected by relativistic effects?
And then we're going to take a look at other ideas in Newtonian mechanics and see how that's affected,
such as momentum, energy and forces.
OK?
I hope you enjoyed this section.
I hope it was fun.
I hope it was enlightening.
I hope I blew your mind.
Stay tuned as we jump further down the rabbit hole and discover the beautiful wonders of special relativity.